Lilly-Medchem-Rules
===================

This is an implementation of Eli Lilly Medchem Rules.  They were
published under "Rules for Identifying Potentially Reactive or
Promiscuous Compounds" by Robert F. Bruns and Ian W. Watson,
J. Med. Chem. 2012, 55, 9763--9772 as ACS Author choice. i.e. open
access at [doi 10.1021/jm301008n](https://doi.org/10.1021/jm301008n).


To quote the abstract, "[This approach] describes a set of 275 rules,
developed over an 18-year period, used to identify compounds that may
interfere with biological assays, allowing their removal from
screening sets. Reasons for rejection include reactivity (e.g., acyl
halides), interference with assay measurements (fluorescence,
absorbance, quenching), activities that damage proteins (oxidizers,
detergents), instability (e.g., latent aldehydes), and lack of
druggability (e.g., compounds lacking both oxygen and nitrogen). The
structural queries were profiled for frequency of occurrence in
druglike and nondruglike compound sets and were extensively reviewed
by a panel of experienced medicinal chemists. As a means of profiling
the rules and as a filter in its own right, an index of biological
promiscuity was developed. The 584 gene targets with screening data at
Lilly were assigned to 17 subfamilies, and the number of subfamilies
at which a compound was active was used as a promiscuity index."

The project includes multiple reference files to get familiar with
motifs considered as "bad" or "good" by these rules.  This is expanded
by compilations of some FDA-approved drugs whith active ingredients
described in the English wikipedia.
